Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crow, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Millford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
I pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
So I'm 23 and verse five.
We're gonna handle one verse this morning.
Thank you, hon.
And we're going to continue in our series experiencing Psalm 23.
So if you're in your Bible at Psalm 23.5, let's say it out loud together.
Can we begin?
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.
How about one more time, ready?
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.
This will be the sixth message in this series that I've done with you, and I've titled it, How to Overcome Any Adversary.
How to Overcome Any Adversary.
Now, I want you to think about some adversaries in your life.
Are you ready?
Not your mother-in-law, not your father-in-law, I hope, by God's grace, those aren't your adversaries.
Think about some adversaries.
Okay.
All right, here's one.
If you want to throw that up there, pull the next slide, if you would.
Here's an adversary, right?
Come on.
Boston.
Red Sox Nation, right?
Adversary.
Let's talk about that.
First Peter 5'8", you'll see it on the screen here.
Here's what the Bible says.
Peter talking, be sober minded, be clear thinking.
Have it together.
Be discerning.
Be alert.
Be sober minded.
Be watchful.
You're what?
You're adversary, the devil, who's our adversary, ultimately.
The Yankees, no.
It's the devil.
a very real devil, who does what?
Who prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour?
How many would think that you might be someone that the devil would want to seek to devour?
Raise your hand.
It's true.
Here's our adversary.
And we're going to talk about that this morning.
The adversary can manifest in three different ways, primarily and ultimately the devil.
But it's also the world system, the ideology of the world.
The way that the world is thinking and what they believe is contrary and the antithesis of what the Bible believes.
So we could have a worldview or we could have a biblical worldview and we would land heavy on the biblical worldview.
There also is the flesh and you're thinking, what is the flesh?
The flesh is the old re-unredeemed part of you.
Does anybody know what I'm talking about when I say that old, unredeemed part of you?
It still comes out, doesn't it?
Even though Jesus shines bright, and even though Jesus is working in you by the Holy Spirit, that old, unredeemed part of you is called the flesh.
And it's still something that we have to struggle with.
That would be an adversary.
And of course, there's the demonic realm as well.
The Hebrew word for adversary is Hasatan.
Hasatan.
I wanted to go to 2 Samuel before we look at verse 5 of 23.
I want to give you a context into the life of David as he's writing the 23rd Psalm and verse 5.
So take your Bible and go to 2 Samuel.
So you'll go keep going to your left, 2 Samuel chapter 18.
And I just want to show you something that David was struggling with.
And this will give you a context and then we'll come back to verse 5 and I'll show you a couple of principles that are in that text.
So 2 Samuel
Chapter 18, verse one.
Second Samuel 18, verse one.
And if you're there, say a hearty amen.
I'll wait just a little bit longer.
I sound about 50% of you.
It's a little tougher book to find.
I understand.
Chapter 18, verse one, then David mustered the men who were with him and set over them, commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds.
And what's going on there?
Well, what you had is Absalom, his son, who really was trying to take over his father, trying to overthrow his father.
And so what he was doing was he was rallying some people in chapter 17.
So David's reaction to that is to build an army.
Now, I just want to go through this quickly.
It's not going to take us very long, but it's important for us to see it.
And so if you go down to verse 17, 17,
The Bible says here, and they took Absalom and threw him in a great pit in the forest and raised over him a very great heap of stones, and all Israel fled everyone to his own home.
Now Absalom, in his lifetime, had taken and set up for himself the pillar that is in the King's Valley, for he said, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance.
He called the pillar after his own name and is called Absalom's monument to this day.
David said to his men, do not kill the young man.
His son, when it ended up happening is that his hair, he was a beautiful man, had amazing hair on his head, and he got caught up in a tree.
And the people that David said do not kill him did.
So at the end of this, you see Absalom, and there's a monument, I have a picture here, if you want to bring that up, Absalom's monument to this day.
This is a very real tragedy in the life of King David.
that his own son would try to overthrow him, that he would die a tragic death.
Absolom became one of David's adversaries.
Can you imagine your own son becoming an adversary to you, or your daughter, or somebody very close to you?
It's a tragic situation, very hard, very difficult.
Psalm 23 has written in that context, and I want to look at two principles with you, and I've titled this, how to overcome any adversary
But I could have added and adversity because adversaries will bring adversity to your life.
How do you overcome that?
This is an implication of opposition and obstacles coming against us.
I need my wife's help again.
There's a water that I had over there, brother.
Can you grab my water?
This happens to me every fall.
I can remember going through a season in our life, very difficult season.
And I started to read the Psalms over and over again.
And I would just meditate on the Psalms.
And I had a little notebook next to me, and I would write down all the thoughts that God would be giving to me during that season of our life.
And out of that came a hundred messages, a hundred messages that the Lord gave me to preach and teach people.
But it was based on this
life of David as he was writing most of the Psalms.
This is a man who's in complete grief, complete heartache.
And so he writes the Psalm and he's going to give us how to overcome any adversary or adversity.
Are you ready?
Here's number one, rely on the ability that God provides, number one.
rely on the ability that God provides.
Now in verse five, David said this, and we've read it already, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
What does he mean by this?
You're familiar with this statement by David, correct?
You've heard it over and over again.
We know that one of his adversaries, one of his greatest was who?
King Saul.
And he was being chased for 20 years by King Saul, a jealous man.
a threatened man, an envious man towards David.
The other adversary we know based on what we've just read is his son Absalom was an adversary and all of those that Absalom had gathered around him to come up against his father.
David talks about enemies plural many, many times in the context of his writings.
Now here's my way to think about this is going to be a big idea.
Think of your enemy or your adversary
watching you walk with God.
Think about this.
Your fellow shipping with Almighty God in such an intimate way that your adversary is watching you and they're completely agitated.
I'm going to get into verse five.
This is what we're looking at.
Why did he say you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies?
So hold on to that thought.
I'm going to repeat it.
Your enemy or adversaries watching you walk with God with such anointing, with such power.
The presence of God is so strong in your life that your adversary watches you and there's nothing they can do about it.
This is David's experience.
This is where he comes to.
He says, God, you prepare.
The idea here is to arrange or to put an order or even to ordain
God so ordered his life and listen, he orders our life with pain involved.
How many people know that?
You've got to embrace that.
That's key.
So if you're going through a painful season of your life, as Steve and others were testifying of, God has ordained that.
That is under his sovereignty.
That's in his providence.
That's all part of his plan.
You prepare, he says, about God, and then you prepare a table.
A table's a wonderful thing.
Go to the text in Psalm 23.
I just want you to go back in the chapter 22 real quick.
Psalm 22, and notice that David talks about feasting or eating together.
He talks about a table in 22, verse 26.
Notice it.
The afflicted shall do what?
What's it say?
The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied.
And those who seek him shall praise the Lord.
May your hearts live forever.
Look at verse 29.
All the prosperous of the earth do what?
They eat and they what?
They worship.
Notice that they eat and they worship before him shall bow down all who go down to the dust.
Now this is important.
31 go to chapter 31.
Look at verse 19.
I'm sorry about my voice.
I'll have to fix that somehow.
Oh, how abundant is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you in the sight of the children of mankind?
Verse 20, in the cover of your presence, you hide them from the plots of men.
You store them in your shelter from the strife of tongues.
This is an important piece of this whole understanding.
He talks about the table that God prepares the table.
What do we celebrate here at church?
The Lord's table, right?
It's called communion.
So here's one way to do.
I want you to take out your communion cup.
I hope you have it.
If not, then one of the ushers will give you one.
Raise your hand if you don't have a communion cup and you want to participate with us at the Lord's table.
I figured this is a perfect spot to do this.
I'm going to prove a point to you as we do this.
That has to do with number one.
It's an amazing text of scripture.
You don't have to turn here.
I'll just read it out.
Matthew chapter 26.
And you can go there if you want.
26, Jesus talks about a table in verse seven.
It says, a woman came up to him with an alabasca or flask of various, I'm sorry.
27, I want, I'm sorry, 26 verse seven.
Hope this is the one.
And she poured it on his head.
Oh, there it is.
Verse seven of 26 of Matthew and he reclined at table.
He reclined at the table.
Let me just show you one more.
Luke chapter five, amazing text of scripture talking about this.
Table's important for us to understand.
A table is meaning fellowship, family,
friendship.
That's what that is implying there.
So Luke chapter 5 verse 29, Levi made him a great feast in his house and there was a large company of tax collectors and others reclining at table with him.
Here's what I want you to do.
I want you to take out the elements and we're going to celebrate the Lord's table or communion together.
The first is bread.
Now we do this in remembrance of Jesus, dying on a cross for our sins and rising from the dead.
It's called the gospel.
And when we celebrate communion, we are communing with God.
This isn't just remembrance.
Now hold on to this thought.
Please hold on to this.
This has to do with number one.
Point number one, it's important.
It's just not a remembrance.
It's a reliance.
You see, we can go and say, hey, let's take this bread together, which we do every week.
And you can remember the Lord Jesus dying for you.
And that's completely perfect, but it's incomplete.
We need more than that.
So when I take this bread and I drink this juice, I am saying to God, God, I am not able in myself.
I can't save myself.
I can't redeem myself.
I can't justify my own sin before a holy God.
So when you take this, you're saying, God, I am unable, but you are able.
So you are relying on God.
Can we do that together?
Jesus, we rely on you.
Not just remember all that you did, but by taking this, we rely on you in Jesus name.
Let's eat together.
in the same for the juice, representing the blood, beyond remembrance.
We rely on you, Lord.
Let's drink together.
Hallelujah.
There will be those who will watch from a distance, those who have hurt you,
those who have maybe persecuted you and they're going to look at your life because you walk with God because you sit at the table with God in communion because you are trusting in Him and His ability and not your own and your adversary is going to look at you and go, I don't get how they're making it.
I don't get how they're still standing.
I don't understand all that they went through.
How they can still be praising God.
You prepare a table before me.
That is saying, God, you're my ability.
I don't have any.
The question would be, do you say that?
Can you say honestly, this morning I don't have any ability?
But God, I know that you do.
That's how you overcome the adversary.
You think that you can go up against Satan himself?
I'm telling you, you'll lose.
You'll lose every single time.
You think that you can go up against your own flesh?
I'm telling you, you'll lose every single time.
But if you say, and I say, God, I need you, I need you to so fill me, to overwhelm me, to consume me, to lead me, I need you, God, because I cannot do this.
Then you'll experience what it means to overcome.
It doesn't matter if it's a demon coming after you.
It doesn't matter if it's the devil coming after you.
It doesn't matter if it's a person who's manifesting something against you.
You'll overcome.
And you'll overcome every single time without fail.
Here's your application.
You can write this in if you're the note taker.
There's a place for it.
Take your place at the table.
This is what you do.
Let me give you a point number two out of the text, verse five, the second half of verse five.
Receive the anointing God promises.
Number two, receive the anointing God promises.
David says this, you anoint my head with what?
With oil and my cup overflows.
How important is anointing oil?
How important important, pardon me, is it to anoint with oil?
Exodus chapter 30, verse 22 down to verse 38 talks about the temple.
It talks about the pieces in the temple.
It talks about this anointing oil and there's a certain ingredients that you had to have in the anointing oil.
And that anointing oil was to go on.
They were the anoint pieces in the temple.
Means consecration.
It means the power of God.
It means the presence of God.
Some of our brothers and sisters would call this the baptism of the Holy Spirit.
Some would call this the right hand of God on a person's life.
Some people would call this the unction of God.
All of those, I think, are accurate.
All of them.
It's an anointing.
James chapter four, or five, I think I have it on the screen if you could bring that up.
Notice what James says here.
Is anyone among you what?
Sick, sick.
Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
We did some of this at our worship night.
We anointed with oil.
Some would say that this text is meaning medicinal, and they would put oil on wounds.
And I think there's some truth to that.
I'm not denying that interpretation.
But I think it's beyond that.
And I think that when we anoint people with oil, we're identifying that person as having the blessing of God on them, that the power of God is then coming on them and in them to do what?
Possibly to heal your body, to heal your mind,
to heal your relationship.
Don't know.
But the anointing is important even to this day.
It means to consecrate.
That means you are going to get anointed with oil.
You're going to get baptized with the Spirit.
David says that in the text, you anoint my head with oil and my cup is overflowing.
This point, receive the anointing God promises.
Notice, 1 John 2, 27 is on the screen.
I'll show you this verse as well.
But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, referring to who?
Anybody?
Holy Spirit, you have no need that anyone should teach you.
But as his anointing teaches you about everything and is true and is no lie, just as has taught you, abide in him.
This relationship with the Holy Spirit is so important.
Can I just ask you, do you know the Holy Spirit?
I'm not gonna ask you if you know the Father, although you should.
I'm not gonna ask you if you know the Son of God, although you should.
I'm gonna ask you personally, and specifically, who is the Holy Spirit to you?
Do you know Him?
Do you walk with Him?
Do you listen to Him?
Are you filled by Him?
Are you anointed by Him?
Do you have the unction of God?
Is God's hand on your life?
Can you say yes?
Do you believe that?
I'm going to tell you, you're going to need that.
You're going to need to know that.
This anointing is for you.
It's for all of us.
Can I show you Psalm 92?
Go there with me.
It's not on the screen.
I want to show it to you.
Psalm 92.
Notice what the writer says here.
92 verse 9.
For behold, your enemies, oh Lord, for behold, your enemies shall perish.
All evil doers shall be scattered.
But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox.
And you have poured over me fresh oil.
I don't know about you, but that encourages me.
You're saying, how does that encourage you, Chris?
Because constantly in my Christian life, I need God to pour fresh oil.
What's that mean?
Fresh onion.
fresh baptism, fresh feeling, fresh power.
God, would you pour over me that fresh oil?
This anointing.
When adversaries and adversity come into your life, this anointing or blessing is promised to you.
No weapon formed against you will what?
What's the Bible saying?
Prosper.
This includes the enemies, his devices,
tactics and wily ways, receive the anointing, be receptive to his spirit this morning.
He's wanting to pour this fresh oil on your head this morning.
Seriously application in your outline, thank the Lord for his blessing.
Thank the Lord for his blessing.
David said, my cup does what?
It overflows.
Can I just illustrate that for you?
I want to illustrate that for you.
with this pitcher of water.
And this is going to represent the Holy Spirit.
And this jar is going to represent us.
Now, typically when you are pouring something into a glass, you might want to be paying attention, right?
Because if you're not, then it can spill over on your countertop, onto the floor.
You ever had that happen before?
And you're like, oh, man, I wasn't paying attention.
You get a little bit frustrated.
It's a little bit chaotic in the house, maybe.
But I want to illustrate this using it with what David is saying in the text.
He said, my cup is overflowing.
And so it's like, oh God, would you just pour into me the Holy Spirit?
Would you just fill me all the way to the top?
And then when it gets all the way to the top, then your light feels a little bit uncomfortable.
And you're like, oh no, I need to stop this.
I need to clean this up.
I can't have this happen.
This is out of my comfort zone.
What do I do about this?
This is a lot of Christians.
God is wanting to overflow your life so much and you're saying, no, God, I need you to stop it now.
God, I don't even know if I can handle all of this.
I don't know if I was raised in this tradition or not.
When God starts to overflow your life, receive that.
When he starts to anoint your life and bless your life in abundance,
Don't get to the place where you're trying to clean everything up and understand it completely because you're not going to be able to do that.
Just receive it.
Just go, God, I want more.
I want you to overflow my life because this is what you want to do in my life.
Does that make any sense?
There's so much more.
I didn't realize this early on in my Christian life.
There's so much more that God has for us.
David uses an interesting word for God.
He calls God Jehovah Nissi, the one who fights for me while I feast, the one who fights for me.
I'm going to give you another illustration that I'm going to close.
Here's a picture, and if you've ever been to Boston Garden, you'll go in there and of course the banners are over top.
Can you imagine the adversary, but let me use it in the sports analogy, opponent
The opponent comes in the Boston Garden and they see all the banners up there, like those, championships, world championship, one after the other.
What do you think is going into the mind of the opponent or the adversary?
Jehovah Nissi, you're fellowshipping with God at the table.
He is Jehovah Nissi over us.
He's our banner.
And when the enemy comes in to your life to try to bring in strongholds or try to do something against you, adversity,
Don't you know that God is over at all?
That the enemy looks at the banners and goes, uh-oh.
So that means you could have your hot dog and your coke and just sit there and chill out.
Seriously, he's called you to a table.
That's what David's saying.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
In other words, I'm in communion with God.
I'm fellowshiping with God.
I'm having these moments with God.
The unction of God is on me.
The anointing of God is on me.
My adversary is watching that.
The devil included.
And he sees Jehovah Nissi.
He sees the banner over you, a victory, of a conqueror in Christ.
This is where David's going with that.
And he's saying it to us as well.
Would you rely not on your own ability?
Would you receive the anointing and you'll overcome any adversary or adversity?
Hallelujah and amen.
That is the word.
Look, can we read the Psalm together all out loud?
Psalm 23, we've been trying to memorize it.
We'll do that all together.
Ready?
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside still waters.
He restores my soul.
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his namesake.
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for you are with me.
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
This is the word of the Lord.
You are loved.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Milford Campus Sermon podcast.
If you like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at crosswayscc.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.